Architecture-related Risks for 5G/6G Security
The 5G (and prospective 6G) architecture components and related risks
are the following:
» Service-Based Architecture (SBA), decomposed, virtualized, and
distributed network functions. The independence of network functions
from infrastructure poses challenges for network security.
» Application Programming Interfaces (API). Poorly encrypted,
inadequately secured APIs put network resources at risk of attack.
» Private and corporate 5G networks. Such networks, if not adequately
protected, can be a source of attacks for the network segments to which
they are connected.
» Multi-Access Edge Computing (MEC) [19]. Security management
becomes difficult in decentralized information processing, such as edge
computing, as significant network parts can be attacked anywhere.
» Radio Access Network (RAN) and Open-RAN. The radio segment of the
mobile communication network is inherently exposed to attacks related
to the omnipresent transmission medium. The open specification of
the radio interface (O-RAN) introduced in the 5G network [1,2] poses a
challenge to their security. Inadequately defined and poorly secured
O-RAN applications, e.g., in the physical or MAC layer, may be vulnerable
to these attacks.


The first three 5G security issues are similar to general software architec-
ture and applications security problems. The last two strictly address RAN
and its novel features, including its openness and intelligence. 


Signalling Storm
 KPI profiles [28] that are created in Near-RT RIC and updated dynamically. Based on the monitoring of Random Access Responses, the KPI profile can capture statistics of the network access requests and Timing Advance (TA) parameters of each UE. In particular, IoT devices have this kind of profile and statistics constant. Based on the KPI profile and the currently observed number of access requests, the so-called anomaly values (or metrics) are calculated and then input to a weighted version of the DBSCAN grouping algorithm. The algorithm decides on the presence or absence of a Signaling Storm attack. In this case, the threat analysis determines the adversary's approximate distance from gNodeB (E2 Node). In the case of adversary UEs, an increased number of Msg2: Random Access Response messages containing the same TA parameter measured by gNodeB (E2 Node) will be observed. 
Connection requests associated with a given TA may be rejected.


  

two phases: the training phase and the inference phase. The training phase aims to build KPI profiles based on the Random Access responses forwarded to the Near-RT RIC from E2 Node (gNodeB) via the E2 interface. Within this phase, tuning the detection algorithm’s parameters is also done, e.g., adjusting the threshold for the anomaly metric above which the attack will be detected. In the inference phase, detection of the adversary's presence takes place already at the level of the access network. It only requires the collection of Msg2 messages for a period corresponding to the KPI profile validity. If the adversary activity is detected, the xApp utilizes the E2 interface to notify the gNodeB (E2 Node) to reject connection requests from a given UE, i.e., to send an RRC Connection Reject message to stop UE authentication within the core network.